What is javascript?
	programming language for web. and outside of the browser also (node.js - brower ku veliya run aga node.js use agum).java script is the high level interprited single
thered dynamic programming language for web and server mostly is used for web applications static to dynamic process for your webpage.

interprited - code executed line by line (run rime environment) sygroness process.only use in browser (browser la js v8 engine la run agum).

when you write a 

browser forse(change) no exe or superated 

js types :-

1. internal and 
2. external only 

core concepts must need to know :-

two types for learning 

1. funtional process (math process)
	
	15% to 20% interview question ithula tha varum. (formula,syntax,methods)

core concepts basics

variables :-

data types

1.primitive data type
	
	operators and expressions
	control flow (conditional statements if, if else,else if, switch) 
	loops
	funtions objects and arrays
	advanced concepts ES(Ecma Script) 6plus features
	

2.non primitive data tyeps

2. DOM Process
40 to 50 % intrview questions kepanga
DOUMENT OBJECT MODEL

	root=document
	slectors = 
	even handling and even listening
	properties


closures and scope 
prototypes and classes
event LOOP
array methods 

frameworks and libraries
frameworks -- > angular and next.js

lib--> react vu.js

node.js --> server side and web

TASKS

what is js why use and where use 
what is variable declaration
what is intitzaisatuion
what is dtatyes what are akk the important datatype
what is primitive and non primitive data type

1. what is js why use and where use ?
	javascript is a popular programming language that makes websites nd interactive.Html gives a 
structure , css five style and javascript goves a brain/logic.

	we use javascript because it can show messages change colors, validate forms, and update content wothout reloading the page.
 

	we use javascript in 
front end --> to make webpages dynamic and interactive
backend--> using Node.js for server-side logic
apps & games --> to build mobile apps and dsktop apps and simple browsser games

2. what is variable declaration ?
 	variable declaration means creating a variable and telling the program that this variable exits.
example 
let age

3. what is intialization?
	initialization means giving the variable its first value.
 example
let age=25

4. what is dtatyes what are akk the important datatype ?
	datatypes means the type of value we store in a variable.

important data types in java script

1. Number - let x=10;
2. string - let name="jagath";
3. boolean - let isopen =true;
4. null - let value=null;(empty on purpose)
5. undefined - let test; (declared but no value)
6. object - let person ={name:'jagath',age:23};
7. array - let colors['red','yellow','blue'];

5. what is primitive and non primitive data type?

primitive datatypes 
	simple and single values 
	example number, string, bolean, null, undefined, bigint, symbol
	stored by value(copy of data stored)
	example--> let age = 30;
	cannot change value directly (create new values)

non primitive datatypes 
	collection or complex value 
	object, array, function
	stored by referance(point to memory address)
	example--> let person {name:'jagath',age:23};
	can change properties/ elements

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

🔹 What is JavaScript?

JavaScript (JS) is a high-level, interpreted, single-threaded, dynamic programming language.

It was originally built for the web but now also works outside the browser (via Node.js).

JavaScript converts static webpages into dynamic, interactive webpages.

⚡ Key Features:

Interpreted → runs line by line in a runtime environment.

Single-threaded → executes one task at a time.

Asynchronous support → with callbacks, promises, async/await.

Runs in browsers (via JavaScript Engines like Google Chrome’s V8) and on servers (Node.js).

🔹 Types of JavaScript Usage

Internal JS → written inside <script> tags in an HTML file.

External JS → written in .js file and linked with <script src="file.js"></script>.

🔹 Core Concepts to Learn in JavaScript
1️ Basics

Variables → var, let, const

Data Types

Primitive → number, string, boolean, null, undefined, symbol, bigint

Non-primitive → objects, arrays, functions

Operators & Expressions → arithmetic, logical, relational, assignment

Control Flow → if, else, else if, switch

Loops → for, while, do-while, for…of, for…in

Functions → normal, arrow functions, parameters, return values

2️ DOM (Document Object Model)

👉 JS interacts with HTML & CSS through the DOM.

Root → document

Selectors → getElementById, querySelector, etc.

Events → event handling & event listeners (e.g., onclick, addEventListener)

Properties & Methods → change content, style, attributes dynamically

3 Advanced Concepts

Closures & Scope (local, global, block)

Prototypes & Classes (OOP in JS)

Event Loop → manages sync & async code

Array Methods → map, filter, reduce, forEach

ES6+ Features → let/const, template literals, destructuring, modules, promises, async/await

4️ Frameworks & Libraries

Frameworks → Angular, Next.js

Libraries → React, Vue.js

Server-Side → Node.js

✅ One-liner Summary (Interview-friendly):
“JavaScript is a high-level, single-threaded, interpreted programming language mainly used to make web pages dynamic and interactive. 
It runs in browsers (via engines like V8) and outside browsers using Node.js. Mastery of DOM, ES6+ features, async programming,
and frameworks like React/Angular is essential for modern development.”

1. What is JavaScript? Why do we use it? Where is it used?

Answer:
JavaScript is a high-level programming language that adds logic and interactivity to web pages. We use it to validate forms, update content without reloading, and make websites dynamic. It is used in front-end for UI, back-end with Node.js, and also in mobile/desktop apps and simple games.

2. What is variable declaration?

Answer:
Variable declaration means creating a variable and telling the program it exists.
Example:

let age;

3. What is initialization?

Answer:
Initialization means assigning the first value to a variable.
Example:

let age = 25;

4. What are data types in JavaScript?

Answer:
Data types define the type of value stored in a variable. The main ones are:

Number → let x = 10;

String → "Jagath"

Boolean → true / false

Null → null

Undefined → declared but not assigned

Object → { name: "Jagath", age: 23 }

Array → ["red", "blue"]

5. Difference between primitive and non-primitive data types?

Answer:

Primitive: Simple values like number, string, boolean, null, undefined, bigint, symbol. Stored by value. Example:

let age = 30;


Non-Primitive: Complex values like objects, arrays, functions. Stored by reference. Example:

let person = { name: "Jagath", age: 23 };